Reviewer 5 of ICRA 2015 submission 3072

Comments to the author
======================

The paper proposes a classification technique to estimate
the importance of features of trajectories that influence
human-observer preferences. The motivation for the work
stems from human-robot interaction applications that
require legible and predictable trajectory generation. The
work provides indications that certain features like the
relation between the wrist and end-effector trajectories
and the length of the paths traversed by the end-effector,
contribute to how favorably humans perceive robotic
motions. Such a data driven approach can indeed validate
and advance a lot of results that has been generated in
studies on the legibility of manipulator motions. 

There are some concerns raised and clarifications which are
desired by the reviewer.
 
The title of the paper is somewhat misleading. The main
goal and contribution of the paper deals with human
perception of the results of motion planning. Thereby, the
work is a validation method for objectifying observer
ratings of motion planning cost functions or trajectory
rating functions. The aspect of human perception should be
included in the title instead of the trying to imply that
this method can encompass all forms of motion planning
application. This would give a far more polarized
introduction to the paper from the title.

The abstract mentions terms like "human-observer
preferences" and "trajectories that are more acceptable to
people." The introduction also motivates the generation of
more "human-acceptable trajectories". Recent work has
clearly defined the terms legibility and predictability.
The authors fail to convince the reader of the exact
purpose of their study. Do they want observers to 
a>correctly predict the intent of any robot's
actions(legibility), or b>correctly predict the intent of a
known robot's actions(predictability) or 
c>to be comfortable in the presence of the robot performing
the actions? ie. which trajectories do human-observers
prefer?

The authors mention c> in the related work section,
especially in the context of cluttered environments.
However, the reviewer feels that this is very closely tied
to both legibility and predictability. The authors have
designed metrics for the responses from the human
observers, like elegance, efficiency, smoothness and
overall impressions. 
Using randomized planners will tend to generate paths with
low legibility. Will it be worthwhile to try to generate
trajectories with high classification scores and figure out
whether they are more legible. How did the subjects perform
in terms of getting accustomed to the robot over the
trials? Do their ratings get better as they get more and
more comfortable with the robot's motions? Is this a sign
of predicability?

The authors say that the believe the results can be
extended to robots other than the PR2. The reviewer feels
that this requires further generalization of the feature
sets in future work. 

In the calculation of Clearance, the authors take the
average over the waypoint distances from obstacles. Is this
a better measure than taking the maximum? What happens when
a trajectory keeps far from obstacles for the majority of
the time, but gets very close to an obstacle for the
remainder of the execution? Perhaps, getting within a
threshold clearance is actually perceived as worse than
consistently keeping relatively close.

The Joint Limit distance metric seems very robot specific.
The human observer will also have very little idea about
this.

It would be interesting to report the correlation between
the human-observer ratings of smoothness and the calculated
metric of Smoothness.

The authors can also report the relation between the
perceived efficiency and the path length in configuration
space and also workspace for different joints(end effector,
wrist or elbow). Do humans actually perceive the joint
movements or are they more transfixed with the
hand/end-effector through the workspace? The latter seems
to be implicitly assumed in calculating the nominal
trajectory. This should provide the justification for doing
that.

Was there any analysis done on the nominal paths? How were
these paths calculated, since IK solvers provide
redundancies? 

In Comparative Trajectory Features, how does the entire
analysis of the features factor in the different start
states, different goal states and the effect of the
environment/obstacles? Is the data analysis agnostic of
these factors? The more important question is, are humans
agnostic of these factors? For instance, some feature like
wrist_tool_dtw might be required if the tool has to be
rotated from an oppositely facing initial state or has to
avoid obstacles in a narrow or constrained environment. So
extensible are these features considering these
considerations?

The use of randomized planners imply that the trajectories
would not be smooth. The use of the smoothness metric
should naturally be compromised to an extent. What would
the observers rating be to trajectories that are measurably
smoother? Would this bias them against the randomized
planner paths? 

The authors do not make concrete conclusions about what the
specific metrics that they have narrowed down on in the
end. It is presumable, that these metrics would be a
weighted combination in satisfying a cost function. It
would be a nice direction of research to try and estimate
these weights. 

One concern with the overall framework is there is no
consideration of the specific task. Human perception of
motion can depend upon the specific task being performed. A
very naive example can be jittery oscillatory motion. While
this is not always pleasant, it can be expected while doing
a task like painting. While, the question is not to
featurize all possible types of motions, giving the current
motions in the context of a task might be interesting to
gather data on.

The purpose of research is not only to answer questions but
also to raise them. To that extent, this work makes a
commendable effort in answering some questions but also
leaves the opportunity to explore a lot of very interesting
avenues of research. Most of the reviewer's comments should
be resolvable with existing data, and would draw further
insight into the current work and substantiate its impact.


Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The instructions for the Amazon Turk task do not seem clear
with respect to the video. 